[PIANO AND VIOLIN PLAYING]
WELL, WHAT DO YOU THINK?
IT'S AMAZING.
BUT WHO CARES?
WHO CARES?
I MEAN,
WHAT IS IT FOR?
WELL, YOU JUST HEARD.
IT PLAYS MUSIC.
WELL, WE'VE
GOT A PIANO.
YEAH, BUT YOU--YOU CAN
PUT YOUR OWN VOICE ON THERE.
WHAT FOR?
SO THAT YOU CAN HEAR YOUR OWN
VOICE TALKING BACK TO YOU.
I AM QUITE CAPABLE OF HEARING
MY OWN VOICE, MR. GODFREY.
I CAN HEAR IT QUITE
CLEARLY RIGHT NOW
AS IT TELLS ME,
"UH, NO,
WE DON'T WANT TO
BUY YOUR MACHINE."
UH, MA'AM--IS THAT YOUR Fl--
IS THAT
YOUR FINAL WORD?
WELL, IT'S MY WIFE'S,
SO THAT MAKES IT
THE FINAL WORD.
I'M SORRY.
WELL, ME, TOO.
I, UH, I BUSTED MY WAGON.
I'M HAVING IT FIXED
DOWN THE LIVERY.
I WAS HOPING TO SELL
THIS TO PAY FOR THAT.
I COULD MAKE YOU
AN AWFUL GOOD DEAL.
OW! OOH...
LOOKS TO ME LIKE YOU BUSTED
MORE THAN YOUR WAGON.
OH, THAT'S JUST MY KNEE,
BUT IT'S GETTING BETTER.
UM, YOU KNOW, I BET THAT
YOU COULD GET A PURE JOY
OUT OF HEARING YOUR WIFE'S
VOICE ON THIS HERE MACHINE.
Mrs. meson". NELS.
THE ONLY JOY I'D DERIVE
FROM THAT, MR. GODFREY,
WOULD BE
IN TURNING IT OFF.
GOOD DAY.
OH, DRAT!
[DISTANT THUNDER]
LAURA.
I'M COMING.
Miss Beadle: JASON.
JASON, I WAS VERY PLEASED
WITH YOUR WORK TODAY.
THANK YOU, MA'AM.
LAURA INGALLS, I KNOW
JUST WHAT YOU'RE UP TO.
HUSH UP!
WELL, JASON, I HOPE YOU'LL TELL
US MORE ABOUT YOUR EXPERIMENTS.
WHY DON'T YOU BRING IN
A SPECIAL REPORT ONE DAY?
Jason: GOLLY, MISS
BEADLE, I DON'T KNOW.
NOW, JASON, YOU CAN'T GO HIDING
TALENT UNDER A BUSHEL BASKET.
YOU THINK ABOUT IT.
YES, MA'AM.
WANT TO WALK HOME
PAST THE STORE?
UH, SORRY, NELLIE. I'M KIND
OF IN A HURRY RIGHT NOW.
Nellie: MY PA JUST GOT IN SOME
PENNY SOURBALLS AND LICORICE.
NO, THANKS, NELLIE.
I CAN'T.
SARSAPARILLA?
MAYBE TOMORROW.
Mary: LAURA INGALLS,
WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
TELL MA
I'LL BE LATE.
[THUNDER]
HI.
OH.
I WAS JUST
PASSING BY.
WONDERED
WHAT YOU WERE DOING.
SAW YOU UP HERE
YESTERDAY.
IT'S TOO LATE.
WHAT?
THE STORM'S MOVING
OFF TO THE SOUTH.
YOU GOT TO HAVE A
STORM TO FLY A KITE?
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S
WIND ENOUGH.
I CAN HELP YOU,
JASON.
I CAN HOLD HER, OR I CAN
RUN-- EITHER ONE YOU WANT.
I'M A PRETTY
GOOD RUNNER.
WELL, WE'LL
GIVE HER A TRY.
HERE. HOLD THIS.
NOW?
LET HER GO.
HURRY UP, JASON.
RUN!
RUN FASTER, JASON!
WE DID IT!
SHE'S WAY UP THERE!
LOOK AT HER GO!
WE DID IT, JASON!
WE DID IT!
YAY! WE DID IT! WE DID IT!
SHE'S FLYING!
WE DID IT!
HERE. HOLD ON TO THIS.
WHAT ARE YOU
GOING TO DO?
I'LL SHOW YOU.
JUST HOLD ON.
HI, PA.
HI, MARY. HOW WAS
SCHOOL TODAY?
FINE. I GOT AN "A"
ON THE MATH TEST.
HEY, THAT'S MY GIRL.
I'LL BE RIGHT OUT
TO HELP YOU.
WHERE'S YOUR SISTER?
SHE SAID SHE'D BE LATE.
HOW COME? SHE GET A BAD
GRADE ON THE TEST?
NO. SHE'S IN LOVE
WITH A SCIENTIST.
Jason: MIGHT AS WELL PUT
HER UP. STORM'S MOVING OFF.
THERE'S A COUPLE OF
CLOUDS UP YONDER.
LITTLE PEEWEES. GOT TO HAVE BIG,
BLACK ONES THAT MEAN BUSINESS.
LET'S REEL HER IN.
WON'T QUIT, THOUGH.
NO, SIR.
IF AT FIRST
YOU DON'T SUCCEED...
TRY, TRY AGAIN.
BEN FRANKLIN DIDN'T QUIT, AND
LOOK WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM.
HE GOT TO BE PRESIDENT.
- PRESIDENT?
- YEAH.
THAT'S THE FIRST
TIME I HEARD OF IT.
IT'S MOONSHINE.
YOU BE STILL,
MARY!
HE WASN'T PRESIDENT,
LAURA.
HE WAS A GREAT MAN AND ONE OF
THE FOUNDING FATHERS, BUT--
HE WAS PRESIDENT!
BECAUSE JASON
SAID SO. OH!
Laura: HE WAS Too
PRESIDENT...
OF A STOVE COMPANY.
OH! HA HA HA!
RIGHT?
WELL, I'D HAVE TO LOOK THAT ONE
UP, BUT HE DID INVENT A STOVE.
SEE, MARY'? NY AH'.!
Mary: NYAH!
HEY, WHAT'S GOTTEN INTO YOU GIRLS
TONIGHT, THE APPLE PUDDING?
YOU BETTER LEAVE
THE CINNAMON OUT NEXT TIME.
LAURA'S STUCK ON JASON.
Laura: I AM NOT!
COME ON, NOW,
DON'T BE AFRAID OF IT.
THE FELLOW THAT FOLLOWS IN THE
FOOTSTEPS OF BEN FRANKLIN
MIGHT BE A VERY
GOOD PROSPECT.
OH, HA HA!
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE
TO EXCUSE ME.
I GOT TO GO OUT TO THE BARN AND
FINISH WORKING ON THAT WAGON.
THE MAN'S GOT TO
PULL OUT TOMORROW.
CAN I WATCH YOU
WORK, PA?
GOT YOUR CHORES DONE?
I THINK SO.
IT'S MARY'S TURN FOR THE DISHES.
YOU
RUN ALONG.
THANKS, MA.
PA?
MM-HMM?
YOU KNOW WHAT
THE TROUBLE IS?
SURE I KNOW
WHAT THE TROUBLE IS.
I GOT THE WHEEL
JUST ABOUT FIXED.
I DON'T MEAN WITH THE WHEEL.
I MEAN WITH ME.
I'M NOT PRETTY
ENOUGH.
AW, COME ON.
YOU ARE TOO PRETTY ENOUGH.
BESIDES, PRETTY
ISN'T EVERYTHING.
ALMOST.
NOPE, NOT EVEN ALMOST.
IT'S WHAT'S IN YOUR HEART AND
YOUR HEAD THAT'S IMPORTANT.
ANY BOY WITH ANY SENSE,
THAT'S WHAT HE LOOKS FOR.
OH, HE'S GOT SENSE.
HE SURE DOES KNOW
A LOT ABOUT SCIENCE.
I DON'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
WELL, YOU WANT TO
LEARN ABOUT SCIENCE,
ALL YOU GOT TO DO
IS STUDY UP ON IT.
WHOEVER HEARD OF
A LADY SCIENTIST?
I'LL BET YOU THERE'LL BE
A LADY SCIENTIST SOMEDAY.
I HEAR TELL THERE'S LADY
DOCTORS IN MANKATO RIGHT NOW.
- REALLY?
- MM-HMM.
I GOT TO GET
THIS WHEEL INTO TOWN.
DON'T YOU STAY UP
TOO LATE.
IT STILL WOULD HELP
A LOT IF I WAS PRETTIER.
I'M A SIGHT PRETTIER
THAN LAURA INGALLS.
I WONDER WHY HE GOES
TRAIPSING AFTER HER.
WELL, YOU JUST HAVE TO GO
ABOUT IT IN THE RIGHT WAY.
I TRIED SOURBALLS
AND SARSAPARILLA.
WELL, MAYBE HE DOESN'T LIKE
SOURBALLS AND SARSAPARILLA,
BUT YOU MARK MY WORD.
HE HAS A SOFT SPOT
SOMEWHERE,
AND IT'S JUST UP TO YOU
TO FIND IT.
WHAT WAS PA'S?
WELL, ME OF COURSE
AND THE BEST PAIR
OF HIGH-STEPPING GRAYS
IN SULLIVAN COUNTY.
HEE HEE!
WHAT'S JASON FOND OF?
SCIENCE. HE CAN TELL YOU
ALL ABOUT STEAMBOATS,
TRAINS, TRANSATLANTIC
CABLES, THINGS LIKE THAT.
OH.
OH!
WHAT'S THE MATTER?
I JUST THOUGHT
OF SOMETHING!
HA HA! NELS! NELS!
[HAMMERING]
GOT IT
JUST ABOUT DONE.
OH, AND NOT
A SECOND TOO SOON.
I GOT SHOWS IN ABOUT A DOZEN TOWNS
UP NORTH I'M GOING TO BE LATE FOR.
WELL, YOU'RE GONNA HAVE A REAL STOUT
WAGON HERE WHEN I'M FINISHED.
'LESSEN I DUMP HER WHEELS
UP IN A DITCH AGAIN.
WELL, WE GOT TO FIND YOU A MARE
THAT DOESN'T SPOOK IN LIGHTNING.
ONLIEST THING IN THE WORLD THAT
BLOWS THAT MARE UP IS LIGHTNING.
YOU RECKON IT HAS ANYTHING TO DO
WITH THE FACT THAT SHE'S FEMALE?
YOU KNOW, THEIR JUICES
RUN DIFFERENT THAN OURS.
I DON'T THINK SO.
KNOW A LOT OF MENFOLK
SPOOK IN LIGHTNING, TOO.
THERE. THAT'S GOT HER.
I'M PROPERLY GRATEFUL.
HOW MUCH DO I OWE YOU?
$6.85. $4.00 LABOR, AND
THE REST IS IN MATERIALS.
UH, ARE YOU OPEN
TO A PROPOSITION?
A PROPOSITION?
WELL, I--l LIKELY NEGLECTED
TO MENTION THE FACT
THAT THE DOCTOR
TOOK ALL MY READY CASH,
SO I'M GOING TO HAVE
TO PAY YOU IN KIND.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN,
IN KIND?
A SWAP.
W-W-WE DIDN'T SAY
ANYTHING ABOUT A SWAP.
DO YOU WANT TO
GIVE ME A HAND HERE?
LOOK, MISTER, I'VE GOT AN
AWFUL LOT OF TIME AND WORK--
PUT THIS ON
THAT TABLE YONDER.
IT WAS COPIED NUT FOR
NUT, BOLT FROM BOLT
FROM THE ONE THOMAS EDISON
PUT TOGETHER IN MENLO PARK.
IT'S WORTH $50
IF IT'S WORTH A NICKEL.
AND YOU CAN HAVE IT FOR YOUR SERVICES.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
WHAT IS IT?
OH, HERE.
I'LL DEMONSTRATE IT
FOR YOU.
OK.
I AM A TALKING MACHINE
INVENTED BY
THOMAS EDISON HISSELF,
AND I BELONG TO CHARLES
INGALLS OF WALNUT GROVE.
NOW...
NOW WATCH.
[TURNING HANDLE]
Godfrey's voice on machine:
I AM A TALKING MACHINE
INVENTED BY
THOMAS EDISON HISSELF,
AND I BELONG TO
CHARLES INGALLS OF WALNUT GROVE.
WHAT DO YOU
THINK OF HER?
YEAH, WELL, I'VE NEVER
SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT.
WELL, OF COURSE
YOU AIN'T.
SHE WAS JUST
INVENTED LAST YEAR.
YOU HOLLER INTO HER, AND
SHE HOLLERS RIGHT BACK.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
I--I THINK I'M GONNA HAVE A HARD
TIME SPENDING THIS AT THE STORE.
YOU KNOW, I OWE $2.85
JUST FOR MATERIALS.
EVENING, CHARLES,
MR. GODFREY.
WELL, I SEE YOU'VE STILL
GOT THE TALKING MACHINE.
I'VE BEEN TALKING TO MY WIFE,
AND I THINK WE CAN USE ONE.
WELL, INGALLS AND I ARE JUST PULLING
AND TUGGING ON THAT VERY SUBJECT.
I WASN'T TUGGING VERY HARD, NELS.
YOU WANT TO BUY IT?
WELL,
NELLIE WANTS IT.
MAYBE WE CAN WORK
SOME KIND OF DEAL.
WHAT DO I OWE YOU
AT THE STORE?
ABOUT $7.00, NEAR AS
I CAN REMEMBER.
WELL, $7.00 WILL DO IT.
YOU MARK THAT BILL
"PAID IN FULL,"
AND YOU'VE BOUGHT YOURSELF
A TALKING MACHINE.
A DEAL?
Nels: DEAL.
Jason: THIS IS
A DONKEY ENGINE...
[ENGINE WHISTLING]
AND THIS IS THE BOILER.
WHEN THE WATER GETS TO
BOILING, IT MAKES STEAM,
AND THE STEAM GOES
THROUGH THIS THING HERE
INTO THE CYLINDER PART
AND THE CYLINDER,
AND IT MAKES THE PISTON MOVE,
AND THAT MAKES THE FLYWHEEL GO,
AND THAT'S IT.
[APPLAUSE]
SOMEDAY
WE'LL HAVE WAGONS
WITH STEAM ENGINES TO DRIVE
THEM INSTEAD OF HORSES.
WE WILL NOT.
Jason: YES, WE WILL,
AND MAYBE EVEN
STEAM FLYING MACHINES.
THAT'S SILLY.
THAT'S NOT SO SILLY.
A BRILLIANT MAN
NAMED LEONARDO DA VINCI
PREDICTED THAT
MANY YEARS AGO.
NOW, WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED
FROM THIS DEMONSTRATION?
YES, WILLIE?
THAT THERE'S A MAN NAMED
LEONARDO DA-SOMETHING
THAT'S AS SILLY
AS JASON.
[CHILDREN LAUGH]
STAND IN THE CORNER,
WILLIE.
YES, MA'AM.
[THUNDER]
MISS BEADLE, MAY I BE EXCUSED?
SHE'S COMING UP REAL GOOD.
VERY WELL, JASON,
BUT WE'LL EXPECT
A REPORT ON YOUR
EXPERIMENT TOMORROW.
Jason: YES, MA'AM.
LAURA!
I'M HELPING HIM,
MISS BEADLE.
THAT'S RIGHT,
OH, VERY WELL.
YOU MAY GO.
THANKS!
NELLIE, WAIT A MINUTE!
JASON!
I'VE GOT
A TALKING MACHINE!
JASON!
[THUNDER]
GET THE UMBRELLA.
WHAT FOR?
WE'RE ALREADY WET.
IT'S PART OF THE EXPERIMENT--
THE MOST IMPORTANT PART.
HERE, LET ME.
HANG ON TIGHT.
DON'T WORRY. I WILL.
YOU CAN TRUST ME,
JASON.
WHY DO WE NEED
THE UMBRELLA?
SO WE CAN KEEP
THE RIBBON DRY.
WELL, WHAT'S THE USE OF
KEEPING THE RIBBON DRY
IF THE STRING'S
ALL WET?
BECAUSE BEN FRANKLIN
SAID SO.
BOY, WE GOT A GULLYWHOPPER.
LOOK, LAURA.
WHAT HAPPENS NOW?
WE KEEP HER DRY
AND WAIT.
YOU SAW THAT LITTLE WIRE
POINTY THING ON THE FRONT.
THE ONE THAT WAS STICKING
STRAIGHT UP? YEAH.
WELL, THAT SCRATCHES THE CLOUD
AND LETS THE ELECTRIC FIRE OUT,
AND IT RUNS
DOWN THE STRING.
ELECTRIC FIRE? I DON'T
THINK I LIKE THAT.
IT WON'T HURT YOU.
THE WAY THAT KITE'S
BUCKING AND BOUNCING,
IT SHOULDN'T BE LONG.
HOW CAN YOU TELL?
THE KEY.
OW!
WE DID IT! WE DID IT!
WHAT DID WE DO?
JUST LIKE
BEN FRANKLIN SAID!
YOU KNOW WHAT THAT WAS?
REAL, GENUINE,
100% ELECTRICITY!
SURE FELT LIKE
100% SOMETHING.
I COULDN'T HAVE
DONE IT WITHOUT YOU.
HOORAY, WE DID IT!
HOORAY FOR US!
HOORAY FOR BEN FRANKLIN!
WE DID IT!
WE DID IT, LAURA!
WE MADE ELECTRICITY! HOORAY
FOR US, LAURA! HOORAY!
WE MADE
ELECTRICITY!
WE FINALLY DID IT!
WE MADE ELECTRICITY!
HOORAY!
HOORAY! HOORAY FOR US!
WE MADE ELECTRICITY!
HOORAY FOR US!
HOORAY! WE DID IT! HOORAY!
WE DID IT! HOORAY!
[THUNDER]
WHAT ARE YOU
DOING UP THERE?
Mary: WHICH ONE
Do YOU WANT?
THE GREEN ONE--AND HURRY.
SHE'S SHIVERING.
Charles: HERE.
I'LL GET HER JACKET.
OH.
IT'S COMING DOWN.
OH, THANK YOU.
HA HA HA HA!
OH, I THINK YOU AND YOUR
FRIEND JASON COULD THINK OF
SOMETHING BETTER TO DO THAN TO
GO KITE FLYING IN THE RAIN.
OH, YOU'RE SOAKED
TO THE SKIN.
AND THESE ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO COME OFF, TOO.
IT WAS A SCIENTIFIC
EXPERIMENT, MA.
- MMM.
- IT WAS FUN, PA.
Charles: WELL, IT MUST HAVE BEEN To
GET YOU SOAKED To THE SKIN LIKE THAT.
DID YOU BRING
PANTALOONS?
- THESE ARE MINE.
- THEY'RE DROOPY!
YOU'RE NOT GOING
TO BE GOING ANYWHERE.
SO YOU TWO INVENTED
ELECTRICITY, HUH?
YES, SIR. ACTUALLY, BEN
FRANKLIN DID IT FIRST,
BUT WE DID IT
JUST AS GOOD.
JASON SAID HE COULDN'T HAVE
DONE IT WITHOUT MY HELP.
MAYBE I'LL BE
A LADY SCIENTIST.
NOW YOU WON'T BE ANYTHING
IF YOU CATCH YOUR DEATH.
COME ON. LET'S GET
YOU OVER TO THE FIRE.
Laura: DON'T WORRY, MA.
I FEEL WONDERFUL,
REALLY WONDERFUL.
AH-CHOO!
BLESS YOU.
[SNIFFLING]
MA SAYS SHE MIGHT HAVE TO
KEEP YOU HOME TOMORROW.
I'M NOT SICK.
I TOLD HER YOU JUST
GOT THE SNIFFLES.
INFLAMMATION
OF THE NASAL MEMBRANES.
HUH?
FROM A GERM
IT SAYS HERE.
WHAT'S IT LOOK LIKE?
IT'S LONG AND GREEN
MOST LIKELY WITH SPOTS
DOWN ITS BACK
AND A PASSEL OF LEGS.
YOU'RE MAKING IT AWFUL
FANCY SEEMS LIKE.
WHEN YOU'RE SILLY ENOUGH
TO GO KITE FLYING IN THE RAIN,
YOU GET YOUR FEET WET,
AND WHEN YOU GET YOUR FEET
WET, YOU GET THE SNIFFLES.
THAT'S ALL THERE IS
ABOUT IT.
THAT'S WHEN A GERM
GETS YOU IT SAYS.
MAYBE JASON
GOT IT, TOO.
MAYBE WE BOTH HAVE
THE SAME GERM.
HOW ROMANTIC.
PLEASE DON'T MAKE
FUN OF ME.
I'M SORRY.
I DIDN'T MEAN IT.
BETTER GET TO SLEEP.
TURN OUT THE LAMP.
GOOD NIGHT.
AH-CHOO!
NELLIE, WHAT ARE YOU
UP TO, HONEY?
JUST WORKING
ON MY SAMPLER, MA.
OH. YOU BETTER COME INSIDE, HONEY.
IT'S GETTING CHILLY.
AW, MA!
OH, WELL. NOW COME ON. THE
SNIFFLES ARE GOING AROUND,
AND YOU'RE GOING TO GET THEM.
COME ON. COME ON.
I'M NOT COLD. LET ME BE.
OH!
Jason: THEY'VE HAD THEM
FOR A LONG TIME.
ALMOST 100 YEARS AGO, THEY HAD A
BALLOON IN FRANCE THAT WENT UP
CARRYING A ROOSTER
AND A SHEEP AND A DUCK.
THEN THEY BUILT
A BIGGER ONE
THAT CARRIED TWO MEN
UP IN THE SKY.
Laura: WHAT
MAKES IT Go UP?
YOU SEE, HOT AIR RISES, SO WHEN YOU
LIGHT THE FLAME UNDER THE BALLOON,
IT LIFTS IT
OFF THE GROUND.
WITH PEOPLE IN IT?
SURE.
I'D BE AFRAID. BUT YOU
WOULDN'T, WOULD YOU, JASON?
OF COURSE NOT. SCIENTISTS
HAVE TO BE BRAVE.
Nellie's voice:
HEY, JASON.
AREN'T YOU GOING TO
SAY HELLO TO ME?
I'M A TALKING MACHINE,
INVENTED BY
THOMAS EDISON HIMSELF.
I CAN SING AND WHISTLE
AND TELL JOKES.
I CAN REPEAT
ANYTHING ANYBODY TELLS ME
AND NEVER MAKE A MISTAKE.
IF YOU WANT
TO TALK TO ME,
I CAN TALK RIGHT BACK TO YOU
AND NEVER CHANGE A WORD.
I'M THE LATEST,
GREATEST, NEWEST,
TRUEST, ONLIEST TALKING MACHINE
IN THE UNITED STATES
WEST OF MENLO PARK,
NEW JERSEY.
I CAN TALK, AND I CAN SING,
AND I CAN DO ANY--
GOODNESS SAKES, NELLIE.
WHAT DO YOU GOT HERE?
WHY, I DIDN'T KNOW
YOU WERE INTERESTED.
I TOLD YOU I HAD
A TALKING MACHINE,
AND YOU DIDN'T PAY
ANY MIND TO ME.
I'M SORRY, NELLIE.
I DIDN'T HEAR YOU.
NELLIE, PLEASE, CAN I
HAVE A LOOK AT HER?
WELL...IF YOU'RE SURE
YOU'RE INTERESTED.
A TALKING MACHINE.
A GENUINE
TALKING MACHINE.
CAN I TRY IT?
WELL, ALL RIGHT, BUT WE'D BETTER
TAKE IT INSIDE-- AND JUST JASON.
MY MOTHER DOESN'T LIKE A LOT OF
CHILDREN AROUND HER GOOD CHINA.
COME ON, JASON.
YOU CAN CARRY IT.
A GENUINE
TALKING MACHINE!
THAT EXPLAINS WHY
NELS WAS SO INTERESTED
IN THAT TALKING MACHINE.
WISH YOU HAD
GOTTEN IT, PA.
I KNOW HOW YOU FEEL,
HALF-PINT,
BUT WE NEEDED TO PAY
OUR BILLS AT THE STORE
A LOT MORE THAN WE
NEEDED THAT MACHINE.
NELLIE SURE IS LUCKY. SHE CAN
HAVE ANYTHING SHE WANTS.
WHAT ABOUT FRIENDS?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WELL, YOU SAID NELLIE COULD
HAVE ANYTHING SHE WANTS.
WHAT YOU MEAN IS
ANYTHING SHE CAN BUY.
YOU CAN BUY FRIENDS,
TOO, BUT NOT REAL ONES.
THERE ISN'T ENOUGH MONEY IN THE WHOLE
WIDE WORLD TO BUY A REAL FRIEND...
OR A BOYFRIEND EITHER.
THEN WHY DID HE
GO OFF WITH HER?
'CAUSE HE WAS INTERESTED
IN THE MACHINE.
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE IT IF YOU
KNEW A BOY ONLY LIKED YOU
'CAUSE YOU HAD SOMETHING
LIKE A TALKING MACHINE?
NOT SO GOOD, I GUESS.
OF COURSE YOU WOULDN'T.
IF HE LIKED YOU BEFORE,
HE'LL LIKE YOU NOW.
NO TALKING MACHINE IN THE
WORLD'S GOING TO CHANGE THAT.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE RIGHT.
WHY SHOULD I BE AFRAID OF A
DUMB OLD TALKING MACHINE?
THERE YOU GO. WHY DON'T
YOU GO ON IN THE HOUSE?
TELL YOUR MA I'LL BE IN
IN A MINUTE.
YES, SIR.
PA?
MM-HMM?
IF MA SAYS
IT'S ALL RIGHT,
CAN I INVITE JASON
TO SUPPER TOMORROW NIGHT?
IF YOUR MA SAYS ALL RIGHT,
I DON'T SEE WHY NOT.
THANKS. IF I'M NOT GOING TO BE
AFRAID OF NELLIE'S TALKING MACHINE,
I DON'T SEE WHY SHE SHOULD
BE AFRAID OF MA'S DUMPLINGS.
Jason: LOOK AT HER!
IT'S COMING RIGHT To YOU.
IT'S PERFECT!
I'LL GET IT!
JUST LOOK AT IT!
IT'S PERFECT.
I GOT IT.
IT WORKED JUST LIKE
THE BIG STEAMSHIP.
IT SURE DID.
YOU KNOW SOMETHING,
JASON?
I BET THAT SOMEDAY
THEY'LL HAVE A STEAMSHIP
THAT'LL FLY RIGHT
OUT OF THE WATER,
AND IT CAN LAND
ANYWHERE IT WANTS TO.
I GUESS IT'S KIND
OF SILLY, ISN'T IT?
NO, IT'S NOT.
YOU KNOW, LAURA,
THAT'S A WONDERFUL IDEA.
A STEAM ENGINE AIRPLANE
THAT LANDS ON WATER.
THAT'S A WONDERFUL IDEA!
CAN I BE YOUR PARTNER, JASON,
AND HELP YOU INVENT IT?
SURE YOU CAN.
I WOULDN'T WANT ANYONE ELSE
FOR MY PARTNER BUT YOU.
I BETTER BE GOING.
I'VE GOT SOME CHORES TO DO.
DON'T FORGET ABOUT SUPPER.
WE'RE HAVING DUMPLINGS.
I'LL BE THERE.
HIS PARTNER.
MM-HMM.
OH, THAT SMELLS GOOD.
THERE YOU GO.
THERE YOU
ARE, JASON.
- THANK YOU, MA'AM.
- YOU'RE WELCOME.
SO YOU FIGURED THAT WHOLE
THING OUT BY YOURSELF, HUH?
YES, SIR. IT'S A MATTER OF
TRANSFERRING THE VIBRATIONS
FROM THE SOUND
ONTO A HUNK OF TIN FOIL.
IT MAKES LITTLE BUMPS, AND
WHEN YOU WANT TO LISTEN TO IT,
YOU DO IT BACKWARDS, AND
EVERYTHING COMES OUT.
ISN'T HE SMART?
HE CERTAINLY IS.
HE KNOWS MORE ABOUT SCIENCE
THAN MISS BEADLE DOES.
DON'T YOU, JASON?
AW, LAURA.
LAURA, YOU'RE
EMBARRASSING JASON.
WELL, IT'S THE TRUTH,
THOUGH.
I'M SORRY NOW
I DIDN'T KEEP THAT THING.
WISH YOU HAD, PA.
I RECITED "THE BOY STOOD
ON THE BURNING DECK"
WITH A MOUTHFUL
OF GUMDROPS.
[ALL LAUGH]
NELLIE GAVE YOU GUMDROPS?
SEVEN. MRS. OLESON
SANG GRAND OPERA.
OH. SHE BREAK
THE PICKLE CROCK?
- CHARLES.
- HA HA HA!
THAT MACHINE IS
A SUREFIRE WONDER.
SOMEDAY WE'LL HAVE MUSIC OR
POETRY OR ANYTHING WE WANT.
JUST TURN THE CRANK,
AND THERE SHE IS.
GOING TO HAVE A TALKING MACHINE
ON YOUR STEAM ENGINE AIRPLANE?
MAYBE.
I'M GOING TO HELP JASON INVENT THINGS.
AREN'T I, JASON?
SURE.
MIGHTY FINE
DUMPLINGS, MA'AM.
THANK YOU.
Laura: YOU KNOW,
THE DUMPLING'S FLOATING--
IT DISPLACES ITS
WEIGHT IN GRAVITY.
ARTIMEDE SAID SO.
ARCHIMEDES.
THAT'S WHAT I SAID.
AND YOU KNOW
SOMETHING ELSE?
A LAMP WON'T BURN
WITHOUT OXYGEN.
Charles: HUH. I TAKE IT THAT'S
THE END OF THE EXPERIMENT.
YES, SIR.
GOOD. WELL, I'LL JUST
FIND--OH, DADBURN IT!
Caroline: WHAT'S
THE MATTER, CHARLES?
I JUST DISPLACED
MY GRAVY WITH MY ELBOW.
[LAUGHTER]
Mrs. Oleson: A VERY STRANGE
YOUNG MAN, IF YOU ASK ME.
Mr. Oleson: SEEMS
NICE ENOUGH To ME.
I HATE HIM!
OH, NELLIE, DEAR,
YOU DON'T MEAN THAT.
I DO TOO.
I HATE HIM.
HE'S A MEAN,
NASTY OLD BOY--
HASN'T GOT A NOTION IN
HIS HEAD ABOUT MANNERS.
IT'S A WONDER
HE WEARS SHOES.
WELL, HE'S...HE'S FROM
MASSACHUSETTS, ISN'T HE?
WELL, WHAT DOES THAT HAVE
TO DO WITH ANYTHING?
WELL...
IT'S GREAT SHOE COUNTRY
BACK THERE.
CAN YOU IMAGINE
THAT LAURA INGALLS
MARCHING IN HERE
AS BOLD AS BRASS,
INVITING THAT BOY OUT
TO HER HOME FOR SUPPER
RIGHT WHILE NELLIE'S
ENTERTAINING HIM.
WELL, HE DIDN'T HAVE TO GO
IF HE DIDN'T WANT TO.
PA, YOU'RE AS MEAN
AS HE IS.
NOW, SEE HERE, YOUNG LADY!
HOLD YOUR TONGUE!
NELS OLESON!
THAT'S ABOUT ENOUGH
OUT OF YOU, TOO!
NOW, THIS THING HAS GONE ABOUT
AS FAR AS I WANT IT TO GO.
SILLIEST THING IN THE WORLD, A YOUNG'UN
LIKE THAT FRETTING OVER A BOY.
SHE ISN'T OLD ENOUGH TO BLOW
THE FOAM OFF A SARSAPARILLA!
NOW IF HE WANTED TO GO
TO SUPPER AT THE INGALLS',
MAYBE IT WAS BECAUSE HE
APPRECIATED THE INVITATION,
OR MAYBE HE WAS JUST HUNGRY,
OR MAYBE HE LIKES
THE INGALLS.
THEY'RE
A VERY NICE FAMILY!
[NELLIE BAWLS]
NELS! I'M
SURPRISED AT YOU!
SO AM I.
PASS THE BISCUITS.
[BAWLING]
[STOPS BAWLING]
GOOD MORNING,
MR. OLESON.
WELL, LAURA,
HOW ARE YOU TODAY?
FINE, THANKS.
BROUGHT MA'S EGGS IN.
SO I SEE. COME ON INSIDE.
WE'LL HAVE A LOOK.
ONLY TWO DOZEN TODAY. MA SAYS
THE HENS ARE SLACKING OFF.
WELL, I GUESS IT'S
THAT TIME OF YEAR.
I'LL JUST PUT THAT
DOWN AS A CREDIT.
YOU NEED ANYTHING?
YES. SOME WHITE SUGAR
AND SOME CREAM OF TARTAR.
YES, MA'AM. WHITE SUGAR,
CREAM OF TARTAR...
AND ONE GUMBALL.
THANKS, MR. OLESON.
LET'S SEE. SUGAR...
HI, LAURA!
HI.
HOW'S YOUR COLD?
IT'S ALL BETTER.
JUST A LITTLE INFLAMMATION
OF THE NASAL MEMBRANES.
SOUNDS WORSE THAN IT IS.
YOU HAVE
TO GO RIGHT HOME?
NO, I DON'T. WHY?
COME UP TO MY ROOM.
WHAT FOR?
JUST TALK.
HAVE ANOTHER
GUMDROP.
YOU FEEL OK, NELLIE?
JUST FINE. GRAB A
HANDFUL AND COME ON.
OH, NELLIE...
YOU SURE HAVE
A PRETTY ROOM.
YOU'VE SEEN IT,
HAVEN'T YOU?
YEAH, BUT IT WAS SUCH A
LONG TIME AGO, I FORGOT.
YOU DON'T HAVE
TO BE INVITED.
WE'RE GOOD FRIENDS,
AREN'T WE?
WE ARE?
OF COURSE WE ARE. COME
ON, LIE DOWN ON THE BED.
I GOT A NEW DOLL, ALL THE
WAY FROM PARIS, FRANCE.
OH, IT'S BEAUTIFUL,
NELLIE.
I'VE NEVER SEEN
A DOLL LIKE IT.
YOU'RE PRETTY FOND
OF JASON, AREN'T YOU?
OH, I DON'T KNOW.
YOU DON'T HAVE
TO BE BASHFUL.
WE'RE GOOD FRIENDS,
AREN'T WE?
WELL, I THINK
HE'S NICE.
HE SURE IS
AWFUL SMART.
I DON'T KNOW
ANY OTHER BOY
THAT COULD BE SUCH A HAND
AT EXPLAINING THINGS
LIKE HE IS.
SOMEDAY HE'LL BE
A GREAT SCIENTIST.
YOU JUST WATCH HIM.
YOU REALLY LIKE HIM,
DON'T YOU?
MAYBE I DO.
DON'T WORRY.
I WON'T TELL ANYONE.
I CAN KEEP A SECRET.
WELL...
I DO SET A GREAT STORE
BY HIM, NELLIE.
I HOPE
HE LIKES ME, TOO.
DID HE EVER SAY
ANYTHING ABOUT LIKING YOU?
WELL, LAST NIGHT
HE SAID
THAT MAYBE I COULD
BE A SCIENTIST,
EVEN IF I AM A GIRL.
I DON'T KNOW ANYTHING
I'D RATHER BE.
SOMEDAY WE'LL HAVE
A BIG STORE
THAT'LL HAVE A GREAT
BIG SIGN IN FRONT
THAT SAYS,
"JASON AND LAURA:
INVENTIONS DONE TO
ORDER WHILE YOU WAIT."
I'LL NEVER BE
AS SMART AS HE IS,
BUT I CAN WORK
AWFUL HARD AT IT.
YOU REMEMBER
WHAT MA ALWAYS SAYS:
TURN THE OTHER CHEEK.
AND YOU KNOW
WHAT PA SAYS:
TURN THE OTHER CHEEK,
BUT WATCH OUT.
WELL, I DON'T CARE.
I THINK SHE'S CHANGED.
PEOPLE CAN CHANGE,
YOU KNOW.
I'LL BELIEVE IT
WHEN I SEE IT.
SHE'S A SPITEFUL,
MEAN OLD THING,
AND IF SHE GAVE YOU GUMDROPS, IT'S
'CAUSE SHE'S AFTER SOMETHING!
WELL, SHE DIDN'T ASK FOR ANYTHING!
SHE WAS NICE AS PIE.
Charles: WHAT ARE YOU
TWO TALKING ABOUT?
LAURA'S TURNING
THE OTHER CHEEK.
SO NELLIE CAN GIVE YOU
A GOOD LICK.
OH, MARY.
Charles: YOU BETTER GET To SLEEP.
YOU Go ON AND GET THE LIGHTS OUT.
Mary: YES, SIR.
YOU JUST WATCH HOW NICE
NELLIE IS TOMORROW AT SCHOOL.
SHE'LL BE TOO BUSY SHOWING
OFF HER TALKING MACHINE.
SHE TOLD MISS BEADLE
SHE'D BRING IT.
WE'LL, YOU REMEMBER
WHAT MA ALWAYS SAYS--
I KNOW, AND IF YOU'D JUST
TURN THE OTHER CHEEK,
I COULD GO TO SLEEP.
GOOD NIGHT!
GOOD NIGHT.
Jason: WHICH PUTS THE SOUND
VIBRATIONS ON TINFOIL
LIKE PENCIL WRITES ON PAPER.
[APPLAUSE]
NOW, JASON HAS
EXPLAINED ABOUT
THE SOUND VIBRATIONS
AND THE TINFOIL.
ARE THERE
ANY QUESTIONS?
YES, WILLIE?
CAN HE MAKE IT
FLY FOR US?
[LAUGHTER]
CHILDREN! STAND IN
THE CORNER, WILLIE.
YES, MA'AM.
NELLIE, WOULD YOU PLEASE
DEMONSTRATE IT FOR US?
Laura's voice: SOMEDAY MAYBE
WE'LL HAVE A BIG STORE TOGETHER
WITH A SIGN ON THE FRONT--
"LAURA AND JASON'S: INVENTIONS
DONE TO ORDER WHILE YOU WAIT."
I'LL NEVER BE
AS SMART AS JASON,
BUT I CAN WORK
AWFUL HARD AT IT.
I GUESS I DO LOVE HIM
CONSIDERABLE,
BUT I DON'T EXPECT WE'D GET
MARRIED FOR A WHILE YET.
NELLIE, TURN IT OFF.
I CAN'T.
THE LEVER'S STUCK.
I SUPPOSE I SHOULDN'T,
BUT WHEN I THINK ABOUT JASON,
I GET ALL WARM
AND CUDDLY INSIDE.
[LAUGHTER]
I SAID THAT'S ENOUGH!
IN KNOW IT'S SILLY,
BUT I LIKE TO THINK ABOUT IT.
DON'T YOU EVER THINK--
Mary: LAURA!
LAURA!
LAURA, WAIT!
COME ON.
LET'S GO HOME.
LEAVE ME ALONE.
PLEASE, MARY.
JUST LEAVE ME ALONE.
WHOA.
HOW ARE YOU DOING, MARY?
I TOLD LAURA NOT TO TRUST
THAT NELLIE OLESON.
WHAT'S THE MATTER?
WHAT HAPPENED?
NELLIE WAS VERY SWEET
TO LAURA YESTERDAY.
SHE EVEN INVITED HER UP TO HER
ROOM TO TRY THE TALKING MACHINE.
AND?
SHE GOT LAURA TO SAY A WHOLE
BUNCH OF THINGS ABOUT JASON,
A WHOLE BUNCH
OF LOVE STUFF.
LAURA DIDN'T KNOW
THE MACHINE WAS ON,
AND TODAY NELLIE PLAYED
IT FOR THE WHOLE CLASS.
DEAR, SWEET NELLIE, HUH?
WHERE'S YOUR SISTER NOW?
UP ON OAK HILL.
I TRIED TO GET HER TO COME HOME,
BUT SHE WAS FEELING TOO BAD.
I'LL GO SEE
WHAT I CAN DO.
TAKE THE TEAM HOME
FOR ME, WILL YOU?
YES, PA.
GET UP!
I WAS JUST TALKING TO MARY. YOU
HAD A PRETTY BAD DAY, HUH?
I'M NOT GOING BACK
TO SCHOOL EVER AGAIN.
HEY, NOW, COME ON.
IT CAN'T BE THAT BAD.
WORSE. HE MUST THINK I'M A SILLY
GOOSE SAYING ALL THOSE THINGS.
I DON'T THINK SO.
HE'LL NEVER SPEAK
TO ME AGAIN...NEVER.
WELL, IF HE DOESN'T, I DON'T
THINK HE'S WORTH CRYING ABOUT.
SHE SAID
SHE WOULDN'T TELL.
SHE SAID SHE WAS MY FRIEND,
AND ALL THE TIME,
SHE W-WAS...
SHH.
COME ON, NOW.
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT TO DO, PA.
WELL, THEN, JUST
DON'T DO ANYTHING.
YOU DIDN'T DO
ANYTHING WRONG.
NOW, WE GOT A LOT OF FUNNY NOTIONS
BORN INSIDE OF US, HALF-PINT,
AND ONE OF
THE FUNNIEST IS
THAT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO HIDE
THE WAY WE FEEL ABOUT PEOPLE.
LET ME TELL YOU,
EVERYBODY WANTS TO KNOW
THAT THEY'RE LOVED OR
NEEDED OR CARED ABOUT.
ANYBODY THAT DOESN'T
WANT TO KNOW THAT
HAS SOMETHING
WRONG WITH THEM.
WHAT'LL HE THINK OF ME?
IF HE LIKED YOU BEFORE, I THINK HE'S
GOING TO LIKE YOU A LOT MORE NOW.
NOTHING BAD COMES FROM TELLING
PEOPLE HOW YOU REALLY FEEL.
I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING IS RIGHT, PA.
IT WAS JUST SUCH
A HURTFUL THING TO DO.
I KNOW IT WAS.
I DON'T WANT TO BE
A SCIENTIST ANYMORE.
I DON'T WANT TO INVENT
THINGS THAT HURT PEOPLE.
WELL, IT'S NOT THE
INVENTIONS THAT HURT PEOPLE,
IT'S THE PEOPLE AND THE WAY THEY USE THEM.
THAT'S WHAT HURTS.
EVERYTHING'S GOING
TO BE ALL RIGHT.
NOW, LET'S SAY
YOU GO ON HOME
BEFORE YOUR MA GETS
WORRIED ABOUT YOU.
I GOT A FEW MORE
THINGS TO DO.
I'LL BE A LITTLE
LATE FOR SUPPER.
FEEL BETTER?
ALL RIGHTY.
I LOVE YOU.
I LOVE YOU, TOO.
SEE YOU AT HOME.
- MRS. OLESON.
- WELL, MR. INGALLS--
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO YOUR
HUSBAND FOR A MOMENT, PLEASE.
UH, WELL, HE'S BUSY
RIGHT NOW. MAYBE I--
NELS!
OH, CHARLES.
WELL, I'M SORRY
TO BOTHER YOU,
BUT DID NELLIE TELL YOU WHAT
HAPPENED IN SCHOOL TODAY?
NO. SHE JUST MENTIONED
THAT SHE, UH,
TOOK HER TALKING MACHINE
IN TO SHOW THE CLASS.
SHE DIDN'T MENTION TO YOU
WHAT SHE PLAYED ON IT.
WHY, NO,
SHE DIDN'T.
SHE MADE A RECORDING
OF LAURA'S VOICE
WITHOUT LAURA
KNOWING ABOUT IT.
SHE PLAYED IT FOR THE CLASS.
LAURA SAID SOME THINGS
ABOUT A BOY.
THEY'RE THINGS THAT AREN'T
IMPORTANT TO A GROWNUP.
TO A LITTLE GIRL
LIKE THAT--
MR. INGALLS, IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE MAKING A MOUNTAIN OUT OF--
BE QUIET, HARRIET! SHE SAID
SOMETHING ABOUT A BOY.
WAS IT JASON?
YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
NELS, I USUALLY LIKE MY GIRLS
TO FIGHT THEIR OWN BATTLES,
BUT IN THIS CASE, I WASN'T GOING TO
LET IT GO BY WITHOUT YOUR KNOWING.
WAIT HERE.
NELLIE.
NELLIE!
Nellie: YES, FATHER?
COME DOWN HERE. AND BRING YOUR
TALKING MACHINE WITH YOU.
NELS,
I REALLY THINK--
WELL, DON'T, HARRIET.
YOU DEMONSTRATED THAT
MACHINE IN SCHOOL TODAY?
YES.
WHAT DID YOU
PLAY ON IT?
I WANT THE TRUTH,
OR SO HELP ME I'LL--
I DIDN'T DO IT!
WILLIE DID IT--
HID BEHIND THE BED
AND DID IT.
NELLIE TOLD ME TO.
YOU GO TO YOUR ROOM.
AND YOU GO
TO YOUR ROOM.
- MOTHER!
- NOW!
CHARLES, I WANT YOU TO
APOLOGIZE TO LAURA FOR ME
AND TELL HER IT WILL
NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN.
THAT'S A PROMISE.
I'LL TELL HER.
THANK YOU, NELS.
NELS! WHAT ARE
YOU GOING TO DO?
SOMETHING I SHOULD
HAVE DONE YEARS AGO.
NO! I WON'T
HEAR OF IT.
CRANK.
YOU WON'T HAVE TO.
CAN'T SLEEP?
PA TOLD YOU EVERYTHING
WOULD BE ALL RIGHT.
I KNOW.
THEN WHY DON'T
YOU GO TO SLEEP?
BECAUSE IT WON'T
BE ALL RIGHT.
ALL THE BOYS LIKE YOU.
WILLIE DOESN'T.
WILLIE DOESN'T
LIKE ANYBODY.
IF YOU LOSE A BOYFRIEND, YOU
CAN ALWAYS GET ANOTHER ONE.
SO CAN YOU.
NO, I CAN'T.
I BET PA IS RIGHT.
I BET JASON
STILL LIKES YOU.
DO YOU THINK SO?
SURE I DO.
TRY AND SLEEP.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU KNOW SOMETHING, MARY?
NO, WHAT?
LIFE SURE WAS A LOT EASIER
WHEN WE DIDN'T LIKE BOYS.
COME ON. IT'S NOT
GOING TO BE SO BAD.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT TO SAY.
I DON'T THINK I CAN
EVEN LOOK AT HIM.
EVERYTHING'S GOING
TO BE ALL RIGHT.
GOOD MORNING,
MISS BEADLE.
NELLIE.
MORNING, MISS BEADLE.
WILLIE.
ALL RIGHT, CHILDREN,
TIME FOR SCHOOL. COME ON.
[GIGGLING]
[CHILDREN GIGGLING]
QUIET!
NOW, I THINK THIS
HAS GONE FAR ENOUGH.
I DON'T KNOW WHO DID THIS,
BUT I INTEND TO FIND OUT.
NOW, WE'RE NOT
OPENING ONE BOOK
UNTIL WHOEVER WROTE THIS ON
THE BLACKBOARD STANDS UP
AND APOLOGIZES
TO JASON AND TO LAURA.
NELLIE?
I DIDN'T DO IT.
I HOPE NOT.
YOU'VE DONE
ENOUGH ALREADY.
Miss Beadle:
WELL, I'M WAITING.
I DID IT, MISS BEADLE,
AND I'M NOT SORRY
'CAUSE IT'S THE TRUTH.
I SEE.
Miss Beadle: WELL, LET'S
GET BACK TO BUSINESS.
WILL YOU ALL PLEASE TURN
TO PAGE 28 IN YOUR READER?
Laura, voice-over: I DIDN'T KNOW FOR
SURE IF I'D EVER BE A SCIENTIST
OR EVEN IF I'D EVER
MARRY JASON.
THE ONLY THING
I KNEW FOR SURE
WAS WHAT A FINE THING IT WAS
TO KNOW HE LOVED ME.